- [Narrator] Now let's look at the next
customized mapping option which is customizing the order
of the serialized properties.
Now this can be done at both the compile and the run time.
At the compile time if you want to provide
this customization you need the JsonbPropertyOrder
annotation to be set on the class.
So how do you do that?
Let's go to the IDE.
Let's pick up the Product class this time.
And on this class I'm going to say JsonbPropertyOrder.
That's the one.
And when you talk about the JsonbPropertyOrder,
you can now actually specify that using
the PropertyOrderStrategy and on that,
you can specify whether it is any,
or it is lexicographical or it is reverse.
By default of course the order strategy that is employed
is lexicographical, however if you say reverse,
let's try out reverse this time.
It means that the properties in your json document
will be ordered from z to a.
That's what it means okay?
So let's test this out.
Let's go to Tests folder, create a Test class.
TestOrderStrategy, psvm, the main method,
and we have already tried to take the product data
in one of the classes so I'm just going to grab those lines.
I'm going to TestCollections.java and picking up the code
from line number 29 to 34,
because I want only product-specific data.
So let's go there and have that first in our main method
pasted on line number 19.
Okay once we do this, we only have to do
is to get that Jsonb default engine.
And create an instance using the JsonbBuilder.create.
Once that's done, let's just go ahead and say
jsonb.toJson and let's feed the products object.
Okay and let's run this now.
Yeah so do you see that under every product object
the ShippingCompany comes in first?
And then the price and then the name, the id,
in that order and then of course the manufacturer.
So it is going to be the reverse alphabetical order
from z to a.
So that's what you can do.
The other way to set that is at the run time
using the JsonbConfig object,
and the method is withPropertyOrderStrategy
so let's go back to the IDE.
Let's grab the object mapper class and let's come into this
and go ahead and say,
this now is for the property order strategy okay?
And what are we going to do?
We are going to set it on the config object.
There's an API called propertyOrderStrategy
and there you can specify the PropertyOrderStrategy
as reverse okay?
Let's also do one more thing let's go to the Product class
and get rid of the annotation that we put in the code.
Okay next is go to the Test class,
let me get rid of these unwanted imports,
I don't want them okay.
That's good now let's go to the Test class,
and let's make sure that we are trying to grab
the jsonb default engine instance by the overloaded method
of the JsonbBuilder okay?
So that will be create and you are going
to take in the ObjectMapper.
Let's run this, the output is not going to change,
but the only thing is that we'll see the formatted output
so that is going to be a little better.
Yeah so you have p, n, m, i, s, p, n, m, i right?
So the reverse order of the lexicographical order.
However, if you go to ObjectMapper,
and try to put this as any,
it is generally going to follow the order
of the instance variable that is mentioned
in the respective java object.
That's usually the order but that's not guaranteed
so let's quickly test this and see.
Let's say run file.
Yeah, so it is p, n, i, m, s, p, n, i, m,
still employing the same one that we have seen before okay?
So it really doesn't matter if you want to keep
it lexicographical or reverse but these are just
the kind of order strategies that the json binding API
provides you in case you want a different strategy.